- In a multi-environment, multi-data center ecosystem,
configuration is almost guaranteed to be different
between those environments
and our third factor focuses on that configuration.
Let us spend a few moments and define
what configuration, or config, really is.
Config includes those items which are specific
to an environment and not to an application.
Database connections are a great example.
The general rule of thumb
about what is config and what is not
is can you check it into version control
and pass the security concerns
within your organization.
An even better test would be
can you open source your application
and make it publicly available on GitHub?
If you can do this, without leaking information
about your environment, or more importantly,
credentials within your environment,
then you've identified your config.
Sp now that we've talked about what config is,
it's time to discuss the 12 factor pattern around it.
The pattern for config is
essentially externalize it from your application.
Each framework has a different way of dealing with this
but no matter the management,
the values are not embedded in the code itself.
Spring for Java for instance,
in its cloud native implementation,
allows you to bootstrap an external config.
A pure 12 factor strategy for providing configuration
to your application, is through environment variables
or any other similar mechanism.
These are provided at run time from the container,
operating system, or another component completely,
all directly to your application.
Your application will use that config
during its life cycle.
The application itself only utilizes
a placeholder in the code for that config value.
And it shouldn't really even be able to run
without the appropriate config.
Now let's talk about the legacy application scenario.
In my opinion, this is one of the hardest parts
of converting legacy applications to cloud native,
because there's no indication that you've missed
a config value.
If we go back and look at the first factor,
a missing dependency is usually catastrophic
to the run-time of the application.
Missing externalizing a config value
has no such indication.
It becomes almost a hunt through source code
to find those values.
Now hopefully you've built your application
with a common strategy for managing such configuration
to aid you in finding them.
Ultimately, once you have your config externalized,
you can provide it to the application,
based on the environment
or the data center that your application will run in
and it will behave appropriately
based on where it's deployed.